# Question 1)
#### Variable/function-Hoisting
>Function declarations are completely hoisted ,but var declarations(NOT const and let) are also hoisted, but not assignments made with them. This meaning that all var declarations in your code and all function declarations will be lifted up and executed as the first thing in your code. And then afterwards when the code is executing the variables, and functions will be declared values.

Example : [hoisting.js](../hoisting.js)

#### *this* in JavaScript and how it differs from what we know from Java/.net.
>*this* mainly points to the global object in JS. Where as in Java it point to the instance of the current object in question. When making objects/classes *this* points to that class. If a property function of a class takes a callback, that callback has to be binded to the object's *this* or using a arrow function witch under the hood binds *this*. Lexical scoping used by arrow functions is defined by inner functions scoping. Which means arrow functions work in classes/object. If strict mode is enabled for any function then the value of “this” will be “undefined” as in strict mode, global object refers to undefined in place of windows object.

Example : [this.js](../this.js)

#### Function Closures and the JavaScript Module Pattern
>The way that JavaScript works, we cannot make "real objects" thus we need to use closures. Functions enwrapped in other functions have the scope pointing to their parent, thus we can "save" data that way inside an object.

Example : [closures_IIEF.js](../closures_IIEF.js)

## Express
[Miniproject](https://github.com/Stani2980/miniProjectJS) -  Code example for all below
### Explain Pros & Cons in using Node.js + Express to implement your Backend compared to a strategy using, for example, Java/JAX-RS/Tomcat
>JavaScript is dynamicly typed, and is a functional scripting/programming language where you can use a function as a parameter. JavaScript is “the” scripting language to use in web development, where as Java is mostly used for backends, and IoT. Java is statically typed.
>Java needs to be compiled(to machine lang in the Virtual Machine), where as JavaScript is text based and does not need compilation.(speeds up development)
> The pros would be the same as above, that you have the entire application in the same language. The scaleability of Node.js + Express is also remarkably easy. And the objects you will be sending back and fourth (JSON),will directly work with JS, but will demand some work before being Java objects. Java/JAX-RS/Tomcat is better for CPU intensive applications, and large enterprise applications. Java also gives you an IDE to work with which include debugging and static type checking (things that can be added to JS via libraries).

### Explain, using relevant examples, the Express concept; middleware.
> Middlewares, are "functions" that will be run every time our Express backend recieves a HTTP request. These can be used to change the body to JSON, or to check user rights, or you name it... (important that they are in the order you want them executed)


### Compare the express strategy toward (server side) templating with the one you used with Java on second semester and demonstrate a simple Server Side Rendering example using a technology of your own choice
>The strategy is more or less the same, JSP and EJS, look very similar. The idea is the same, you have HTML with embedded JavaScript, or with other tech like .pug you have an other syntax for your HTML as well and embedded JS, but under the hood the .pug is also just HTML.