# Question 10)
## Plain JavaScript + Node.js

#### Why would you consider a Scripting Language as JavaScript as your Backend Platform?
> Most if not all will use JavaScript to make their web app dynamic, or will just code the entire thing in React/Angular.js/Vue Javascript, so why not code the backend in the same language...? This saves both employees, and confusion. The backend frameworks as express.js are also highly scalable, considering that JS is single threaded, so you could have an instance running per core of the server device, and have multiple servers added or reduced, based on the need for your application.

#### Explain Pros & Cons in using Node.js + Express to implement your Backend compared to a strategy using, for example, Java/JAX-RS/Tomcat
>JavaScript is dynamicly typed, and is a functional scripting/programming language where you can use a function as a parameter. JavaScript is “the” scripting language to use in web development, where as Java is mostly used for backends, and IoT. Java is statically typed.
>Java needs to be compiled(to machine lang in the Virtual Machine), where as JavaScript is text based and does not need compilation.(speeds up development)
> The pros would be the same as above, that you have the entire application in the same language. The scaleability of Node.js + Express is also remarkably easy. And the objects you will be sending back and fourth (JSON),will directly work with JS, but will demand some work before being Java objects. Java/JAX-RS/Tomcat is better for CPU intensive applications, and large enterprise applications. Java also gives you an IDE to work with which include debugging and static type checking (things that can be added to JS via libraries).

#### Explain the difference between “Developer outputs” and application logging. What’s wrong with console.log(..) statements in our backend-code. 
> Developer outputs, would be Stacktrace and technical stuff that the user/customer does not need or want to see. Where as application logging, would be som relevant logging of what is happening in our application, if an fatal error killed our application we want to know, and investigate and fix the bug. This could be done with debug.js library. The fault with the console.log() statements is, that they are not saved on the server, thus a server restart would delete them all. + it is more to use in the browser.

Example : [Miniproject](https://github.com/Stani2980/miniProjectJS)

## Express and MongoDB

[Miniproject](https://github.com/Stani2980/miniProjectJS) -  Code example for all below
#### Explain, using relevant examples, the Express concept; middleware.
> Middlewares, are "functions" that will be run every time our Express backend recieves a HTTP request. These can be used to change the body to JSON, or to check user rights, or you name it... (important that they are in the order you want them executed)

#### Explain the benefits of using Mongoose, and demonstrate, using your own code, an example involving all CRUD operations
> The mongoose layer (ODM Object Document Mapper), gives us a type of "classical" schema, wich gives us some guidance in the code what an entity is built of. Mongoose also brings strongly types variables, so the data that we get and add to the database is consistent. It also allows us to query the database.

#### Explain, using relevant examples, about testing JavaScript code, relevant packages (Mocha etc.) and how to test asynchronous code.
> We test via using Mocha test library, and Chai assertion library. Then using async/await and using node-fetch library to handle HTTP requests.