# Question 11)
## Plain JavaScript + Node.js
#### Explain the differences between Java and JavaScript. You should include both topics related to the fact that Java is a compiled language and JavaScript a scripted language, and general differences in language features.
>JavaScript is dynamicly typed, and is a functional scripting/programming language where you can use a function as a parameter. JavaScript is “the” scripting language to use in web development, where as Java is mostly used for backends, and IoT. Java is statically typed.
>Java needs to be compiled(to machine lang in the Virtual Machine), where as JavaScript is text based and does not need compilation.
>Java has block based scoping, where JS har function based scoping.When JVM runs Compile we can get compile time errors, and with Javascript we only have Runtime errors.

#### Explain the topic Function Closures 
>The way that JavaScript works, we cannot make "real objects" thus we need to use closures. Functions enwraped in other functions have the scope pointing to their parent, thus we can "save" data that way inside an object.

Example : [closures_IIEF.js](../closures_IIEF.js)

#### Explain the Javascript methods map, filter and explain and demonstrate the reduce method
>The methods can be used to persist data, and get an altered array that has been modified on each of the elements of the original array. 
>The map method alters each of the elements and returns an equally sized array, where as the filter method filters it by a boolean condition, and returns an array containing objects which are fulfilling the boolean condition.
>The reduce method is used to accumulate list values into a single object, as shown in the example to count votes, and dynamically create an object for return containing the results.
>Map: creating tables/UL, update all objects.
>Filter: for filtering content in table, or UL.
>Reduce: accumulation of values in single object, like the .join() function "under the hood"

Example : [mapFilterReduce.js](../mapFilterReduce.js)

---
## GraphQL 
[Miniproject](https://github.com/Stani2980/miniProjectJS) -  Code example for all below
#### Explain shortly about GraphQL, it purpose and some of its use cases
>GraphQL is a query language for APIs and a runtime for fulfilling those queries with your existing data. GraphQL provides a complete and understandable description of the data in your API, gives clients the power to ask for exactly what they need and nothing more, makes it easier to evolve APIs over time, and enables powerful developer tools.
>Essentially it is just a piece of paper describing a "contract" between parties(API's)
>Is usefull in SPA, because you sometimes need multiple things for rendering a view, and this gives you "all" of them in one querie. This also prevents the constant over-/under-fetching.

#### Explain some of the Server Architectures that can be implemented with a GraphQL backend
>We will only have a single Rest Endpoint, but this endpoint will be queried with the Graph query language, there will have to be created, possible queries, mutations, and inputs, these will be the possible interactions with the API, then there will be a resolver for each query, to fetch the data from the database/databases(could be SQL or NoSQL). This can also be added ontop of existing services making them easier to use.

#### What is meant by the terms over- and under-fetching in relation to REST
>Overfetching is when we get too much data, more than we actually need to render in the client application. This is often the case with relational databases.
>Underfetching is the opposite, when we need some more data than we have recieved, often resulting in extra queries.

#### Explain shortly about GraphQL’s type system and some of the benefits we get from this
>The type system, gives us an indicator what kind of data we should POST/GET from the API, making it easier for other to interact with our API as well. This is also usefull because maybe you are interacting with some legacy databases or servers, that need a specific datatype.

#### Provide a number of examples demonstrating data fetching with GraphQL. You should provide examples both running in a Sandbox/playground and examples executed in an Apollo Client
