# Question 12)
## Plain JavaScript
#### Explain about promises in ES-6 including, the problems they solve, and a quick explanation of the Promise API 
>Promises solves the problem that JS is single threaded and reads from top to bottom. Promises give us responsiveness that we really want in webdevelopment. Helps with HTTP request cause these take time. These work with the webAPI and using the Event Loop.
>Promises represents something that has to be resolved, but takes an uknown time to complete, then i either resolves to a result, or does not resolve and returns with an error.

Example : [promises](../promises/pyramidOfDoomAndFix.js) (use folder /promises/ as examples)

#### Explain about JavaScripts async/await, how it relates to promises and reasons to use it compared to the plain promise API
>Async/await is built ontop of the Promise API, condsidered as "syntactic sugar". It is a way to make async code look and behave a bit more like synchronous code (can fool you some times). It makes code easier to debug and the syntax is similar to other languages with try{..}catch{..}

Example : [promises](../promises/pyramidOfDoom.js) (use folder /promises/ as examples)

#### Provide examples to demonstrate either both or one of the topics mentioned above

## GraphQL, Period-4
#### Explain shortly about GraphQL, it purpose and some of its use cases
>GraphQL is a query language for APIs and a runtime for fulfilling those queries with your existing data. GraphQL provides a complete and understandable description of the data in your API, gives clients the power to ask for exactly what they need and nothing more, makes it easier to evolve APIs over time, and enables powerful developer tools.
>Essentially it is just a piece of paper describing a "contract" between parties(API's)
>Is usefull in SPA, because you sometimes need multiple things for rendering a view, and this gives you "all" of them in one querie. This also prevents the constant over-/under-fetching.


#### Explain shortly about GraphQL Schema Definition Language, and provide a number of examples of schemas you have defined.
>We often have pre-defined datastructures, and thus we know how certain entities should look like. Making it easier to query and to create objects to move around as data.

#### Explain the Concept of a Resolver function, and provide a few simple examples of resolvers you have implemented in a GraphQL Server.
>A resolver handles the "transaction" between a queried request and fetching the actual data from the databases and joining them to a result for the query.

#### Demonstrate and highlight important parts of a “complete” GraphQL-app using Express and MongoDB on the server side, and Apollo-Client on the client.
