# Question 14)
## Plain JavaScript

#### Explain generally about node.js, and when it “makes sense” and npm, and how it “fits” into the node echo system
>Node.js is a server-side platform, created on the Google Chrome V8 engine. It is a tool that allows us to make applications, not only for browser but also desktop, and other devices. It also allows us to do asynchronous functions in JS, using the event-loop.
>We also get to use `npm` witch gives us access to alot of premade JS code/modules. Npm is also a package manager, and holds version control over your added packages. 

#### Provide one or more examples demonstrating User defined Callback Functions
>Functional programming witch allows us to create functions that run other functions

## Express, REST and GraphQL
[Miniproject](https://github.com/Stani2980/miniProjectJS) -  Code example

#### Explain, using relevant examples (mini-project, preferably), your strategy for implementing a REST-API with Node/Express and show how you can "test" all the four CRUD operations programmatically.
> We implement a REST api via middlewares and routes in the express environment. Then we can use a http library as request or node-fetch to simulate http requests in Mocha tests.

#### Explain shortly about GraphQL, its purpose and some of its use cases
>GraphQL is a query language for APIs and a runtime for fulfilling those queries with your existing data. GraphQL provides a complete and understandable description of the data in your API, gives clients the power to ask for exactly what they need and nothing more, makes it easier to evolve APIs over time, and enables powerful developer tools.
>Essentially it is just a piece of paper describing a "contract" between parties(API's)
>Is usefull in SPA, because you sometimes need multiple things for rendering a view, and this gives you "all" of them in one querie. This also prevents the constant over-/under-fetching.


#### What is meant by the terms over- and under-fetching in relation to REST
>Overfetching is when we get too much data, more than we actually need to render in the client application. This is often the case with relational databases.
>Underfetching is the opposite, when we need some more data than we have recieved, often resulting in extra queries.

#### Demonstrate and highlight important parts of a “complete” GraphQL-app using Express and MongoDB on the server side, and Apollo-Client on the client.