# Question 2)

## Plain JavaScript
#### Explain the differences between Java and JavaScript. You should include both topics related to the fact that Java is a compiled language and JavaScript a scripted language, and general differences in language features.
>JavaScript is dynamicly typed, and is a functional scripting/programming language where you can use a function as a parameter. JavaScript is “the” scripting language to use in web development, where as Java is mostly used for backends, and IoT. Java is statically typed.
>Java needs to be compiled(to machine lang in the Virtual Machine), where as JavaScript is text based and does not need compilation.
>Java has block based scoping, where JS har function based scoping. When JVM runs Compile we can get compile time errors, and with Javascript we only have Runtime errors.

#### Explain the two strategies for improving JavaScript: ES6 (es2015) + ES7, versus Typescript. What does it require to use these technologies: In our backend with Node and in (many different) browsers
>JavaScript versions are way ahead of the versions that are supported in the browsers. But for the comfort of developers, and to use the new features of ES6+ES7, we can write these in development, then we can transpile the code to an elder version of JS(ES5), so that the elder browsers can run our code as well.
>Typescript is a superset of JS, that "lays on top" of ES6 and adds even more features, as stricter types, and interfaces, and as with Babel we can use Typescript to transpile the codebase into ES5, once again making til runnable in elder browsers.

Example : [BabelWebpack](../BabelWebpack/src/index.js) (use project as example)

#### Explain (some) of the purposes with the tools Babel and WebPack, using examples from the exercises

>Babel is used when we want to transpile our JS code, into an older version. This is practical, because most modern browsers do not support the newest JS code, and we want our application to run in all browsers, and our development to be with the most modern tech. 
>Webpack ([webpack guide](https://webpack.js.org/guides/getting-started/)), is a bundler or "packaging tool", webpack allows us to compress our codebase to be as small as possible, because then our .js file will be smaller, thus faster to download/upload. The bundler also shortens variablenames and removes all spaces, making the code humanly undreadable, but still understandable for the computer.

Example : [BabelWebpack](../BabelWebpack/src/index.js) (use project as example)

#### User-defined Callback Functions (writing your own functions that take a callback)
>Functional programming witch allows us to create functions that run other functions, given as an argument to a function.

Example : [mapFilterReduce.js](../mapFilterReduce.js)

## Express + JavaScript Backend Testing
[Miniproject](https://github.com/Stani2980/miniProjectJS) -  Code example for all below

#### Explain, using relevant examples, the Express concept; middleware.
> Middlewares, are "functions" that will be run every time our Express backend recieves a HTTP request. These can be used to change the body to JSON, or to check user rights, or you name it... (important that they are in the order you want them executed)

#### Explain, using relevant examples, about testing JavaScript code, relevant packages (Mocha etc.) and how to test asynchronous code.
> We test via using Mocha test library, and Chai assertion library. Then using async/await and using node-fetch library to handle HTTP requests.

#### Explain, using relevant examples, your strategy for implementing a REST-API with Node/Express and show how you can "test" all the four CRUD operations programmatically 
> We implement a REST api via middlewares and routes in the express environment. Then we can use a http library as request or node-fetch to simulate http requests in Mocha tests.