# Question 4)
## Plain JavaScript
#### Explain the differences between Java and JavaScript. You should include both topics related to the fact that Java is a compiled language and JavaScript a scripted language, and general differences in language features
>JavaScript is dynamicly typed, and is a functional scripting/programming language where you can use a function as a parameter. JavaScript is “the” scripting language to use in web development, where as Java is mostly used for backends, and IoT. Java is statically typed.
>Java needs to be compiled(to machine lang in the Virtual Machine), where as JavaScript is text based and does not need compilation.
>Java has block based scoping, where JS har function based scoping.When JVM runs Compile we can get compile time errors, and with Javascript we only have Runtime errors.

#### Explain about promises in ES-6 including, the problems they solve, a quick explanation of the Promise API and:
>Promises solves the problem that JS is single threaded and reads from top to bottom. Promises give us responsiveness that we really want in webdevelopment. Helps with HTTP request cause these take time. These work with the webAPI and using the Event Loop.
>Promises represents something that has to be resolved, but takes an uknown time to complete, then i either resolves to a result, or does not resolve and returns with an error.

Example : [promises](../promises/pyramidOfDoom.js) (use folder /promises/ as examples)
- ##### Example(s) that demonstrate how to avoid the callback hell  (“Pyramid of Doom")
    >The callback hell/ pyramid of doom is referenced to the "ugly" looking code that it produces then you create code with functions depending on async returns from other functions. The way to handle that is to "nest" functions, and the more you nest the bigger the pyramid gets...
- ##### Example(s) that demonstrate how to execute asynchronous code in serial or parallel
    >The Promise api, allows us to execute code in parallel, then recieve the result in the same order in an list, as it was intended, so as the fuc call, takes as long as the longest of the promises.
- ##### Example(s) that demonstrate how to implement our own promise-solutions.
    >We can create "callback" style solutions where we can implement our own "homebrewn" Promises.
- ##### Example(s) that demonstrate error handling with promises
    >Error handling is easier, since we need one error handling point (catch(err){...} block)

#### Explain about JavaScripts async/await, how it relates to promises and reasons to use it compared to the plain promise API.
>Async/await is built ontop of the Promise API, condsidered as "syntactic sugar". It is a way to make async code look and behave a bit more like synchronous code (can fool you some times). It makes code easier to debug and the syntax is similar to other languages with try{..}catch{..}

Example : [promises](../promises/pyramidOfDoom.js) (use folder /promises/ as examples)

## Express
[Miniproject](https://github.com/Stani2980/miniProjectJS) -  Code example

#### Explain briefly how to deploy a Node/Express application including how to solve the following deployment problems:
 > We could use the native cluster function that will use all the cores available on the system, and handle restart on crashes. This is called a loadbalancer, and will create an instance per available core of the system that runs the application. (We can also use a processmanager like PM2)
- ##### Ensure that you Node-process restarts after a (potential) exception that closed the application
    > To ensure my application will work i would use PM2, a process manager that ensures that script is run when i restart server or the application crashes.
- ##### Ensure that you Node-process restarts after a server (Ubuntu) restart
    > To ensure my application will work i would use PM2, a process manager that ensures that script is run when i restart server or the application crashes.
- ##### Ensure that you can take advantage of a multi-core system
   > To ensure my application will work in a multicore system i could use the node native cluster module or i would use PM2, a process manager that creates the amount of processes my system can handle
- ##### Ensure that you can run “many” node-applications on a single droplet on the same port (80)
> This i could configure with a loadbalancer using Nginx, or using PM2, that also can function as a loadbalancer.