# Question 5)
## Plain JavaScript

#### Explain the differences between Java and JavaScript. You should include both topics related to the fact that Java is a compiled language and JavaScript a scripted language, and general differences in language features
>JavaScript is dynamicly typed, and is a functional scripting/programming language where you can use a function as a parameter. JavaScript is “the” scripting language to use in web development, where as Java is mostly used for backends, and IoT. Java is statically typed.
>Java needs to be compiled(to machine lang in the Virtual Machine), where as JavaScript is text based and does not need compilation.
>Java has block based scoping, where JS har function based scoping.When JVM runs Compile we can get compile time errors, and with Javascript we only have Runtime errors.

#### Provide an example of a User Defined Callback Function
>Functional programming witch allows us to create functions that run other functions

Example : [mapFilterReduce.js](../mapFilterReduce.js)

## Geo-JSON 
[Miniproject](https://github.com/Stani2980/miniProjectJS) -  Code example for all below

#### Explain and demonstrate basic Geo-JSON, involving as a minimum, Points and Polygons
>Geo-JSON is used as a two dimentional matrix/array, where x=longitude and y=latitude, which can represent a point on earth, this is also referenced as a "Point". Then we can connect multiple points and create a polygon, which covers an area, on the map.

#### Explain and demonstrate ways to create Geo-JSON test data
>Usin http://geojson.io we can create "Polygons" or points for testing. It is all handles as simple JSON format with arrays of arrays with coordinates.

#### Explain the typical order of longitude and latitude used by Server Side API’s and Client Side API’s
>Which is right??
>Neither. This is an opinion with no right answer. Geographical tradition favors lat, lon. Math and software prefer lon, lat.
>Why is the cartographic tradition to put latitude first?
>There are many theories. The most convincing is that since we were able to judge latitude much earlier than we could judge longitude, we put it first.
>And there is no real agreement in programming to what goes where. Therefore Frontend and Backend often have diffrent order.


#### Explain and demonstrate a REST API that implements geo-features, using a relevant geo-library and plain JavaScript
