# Question 6)
## Plain JavaScript

#### Explain generally about node.js, and when it “makes sense” and npm, and how it “fits” into the node echo system
>Node.js is a server-side platform, created on the Google Chrome V8 engine. It is a tool that allows us to make applications, not only for browser but also desktop, and other devices. It also allows us to do asynchronous functions in JS, using the event-loop.
>We also get to use `npm` witch gives us access to alot of premade JS code/modules. Npm is a package manager, and contains version control over your added packages.
>Node enviroment is module based, thus making npm a really great tool.


#### Provide examples and explain the es2015 features: 
- ##### `let` 
    >is the "goto" variable now, it is not hoisted, and has a block scope, to where is is declared.
- ##### arrow functions `()=>` 
    >is a simple way of creating a function on the fly, with lexical scoping.
- ##### *this* 
    >Is in coop with arrow func. cause it can some times cause problems.
    >*this* mainly points to the global object in JS. Where as in Java it point to the instance of the current object in question. When making objects/classes *this* points to that class. If a property function of a class takes a callback, that callback has to be binded to the object's *this* or using a arrow function witch under the hood binds *this*. Lexical scoping used by arrow functions is defined by inner functions scoping. Which means arrow functions work in classes/object
- ##### `f(...rest)`
    >Rest params, can be used if you dont know how many params you will get in a function.
- ##### de-structuring assignments
    >De-structring is usefull for splitting only the parts needed from an object.
- #### Map
    >map like know from other languages is a key value pair
- #### Set
    >Set a list of unique values, not limited to same datatype
---
## Geo-handling on the server and on the Client (period-3)
#### Explain and demonstrate a REST API that implements geo-features, using MongoDB's geospatial queries and indexes.


#### Explain and demonstrate a React Native Client that uses geo-components (Location, MapView, etc.)
[ReactNativeFrontEnd](https://github.com/Stani2980/miniproject_front_end.git) - Friend finder Proof of Concept app