# Question 5)
## Plain JavaScript

#### Explain generally about node.js, and when it “makes sense” and npm, and how it “fits” into the node echo system
>Node.js is a server-side platform, created on the Google Chrome V8 engine. It is a tool that allows us to make applications, not only for browser but also desktop, and other devices. It also allows us to do asynchronous functions in JS, using the event-loop.
>We also get to use `npm` witch gives us access to alot of premade JS code/modules. Npm is a package manager, and contains version control over your added packages.
>Node enviroment is module based, thus making npm a really great tool.

#### Explain and demonstrate the array-method reduce
>The reduce method is used to accumulate list values into a single object, as shown in the example to count votes, and dynamically create an object for return containing the results.

#### Provide examples and explain the es2015 features:  rest parameters, de-structuring assignments
- ##### `f(...rest)`
    >Rest params, can be used if you dont know how many params you will get in a function.
- ##### de-structuring assignments
    >De-structring is usefull for splitting only the parts needed from an object.

---
## NoSQL, MongoDB and mongoose
#### Explain, generally, what is meant by a NoSQL database.
> It is a type of database that does not use all the rules of the traditional relational modelling of tables and databases. This kind of database cannot be queried with SQL. These databases use embedding of data and often consist of repeated data. NoSQL databases do not use fixed schema structures and SQL joins.
>A NoSQL database provides a mechanism for storage and retrieval of data that is modeled in means other than the tabular relations used in relational databases. Existing since the 1960's, not a news. But with "cheap" storage now more popular/usefull. Types of NoSQL databases : Column, Document, Key-Value, Graph.

#### Explain Pros & Cons in using a NoSQL database like MongoDB as your data store, compared to a traditional Relational SQL Database like MySQL.
> The performance of such databases can be much faster, because the database does not handle joins, as a traditional database does, which are very time consuming. Though you have to query multiple times to get "foreign keys", but this can also be fixed by embedding, then you will only query one document and get all the info you need. These types of databases are also really good at handling modern features as location markers, and much greater scaleability.
> A con would be that it is not suitet for critical applications, like bank transfers or equally important data transfers. They are not capable of **ACID(Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability)** is a set of properties of database transactions intended to guarantee validity even in the event of errors, power failures, etc.
>**Instead it offers Eventual Consistency**
>Informally guarantees that, if no new updates are made to a given data item, eventually all accesses to that item will return the last updated value.




#### Explain reasons to add a layer like Mongoose, on top on of a schema-less database like MongoDB
> The mongoose layer (ODM Object Document Mapper), gives us a type of "classical" schema, wich gives us some guidance in the code what an entity is built of. Mongoose also brings strongly typed variables, so the data that we get and add to the database is consistent. It also allows us to query the database with object like structure. (very similar to JPQL in essence)

#### Explain the benefits of using Mongoose, and demonstrate, using your own code, an example involving all CRUD operations
[miniproject](https://github.com/Stani2980/miniProjectJS) Code example