# Question 8)
## Plain JavaScript + Typescript

#### Provide a number of examples to demonstrate the benefits of using TypeScript,
>Strongly typed language, supports ES7, and new Javascript syntax + features. Types increase your agility when doing refactoring. It's better for the compiler to catch errors than to have things fail at runtime. Types are one of the best forms of documentation you can have. The function signature is a theorem and the function body is the proof.

#### Explain briefly about promises in ES-6 including, and the problems they solve.
>Promises solves the problem that JS is single threaded and reads from top to bottom. Promises give us responsiveness that we really want in webdevelopment. Helps with HTTP request cause these take time. These work with the webAPI and using the Event Loop.
>Promises represents something that has to be resolved, but takes an uknown time to complete, then i either resolves to a result, or does not resolve and returns with an error.

#### Explain about JavaScripts async/await, how it relates to promises and reasons to use it compared to the plain promise API. Provide examples to demonstrate:
>Async/await is built ontop of the Promise API, condsidered as "syntactic sugar". It is a way to make async code look and behave a bit more like synchronous code (can fool you some times). It makes code easier to debug and the syntax is similar to other languages with try{..}catch{..}
- ##### Why this often is the preferred way of handling promises
    >Beacuse it is "easier" on the eyes, and as written above, more familier to developers that know real OOP languages.
- ##### Error handling with async/await
    >Error handling is more efficient as you can have only one try catch block like we are used to from other languages.
- ##### Serial or parallel execution with async/await
    >Also easier implementation using the await keyword.

## Geo-JSON 
#### Demonstrate both server and client-side, of the geo-related parts of your implementation of the mini project
[Miniproject](https://github.com/Stani2980/miniProjectJS) -  Code example
